---
title: BUG Feedback Template
date: 2022-06-15 19:12:10
permalink: /hybridclr/bug_reporter/
categories:
  - HybridCLR
tags:
  -  
comment: false
editLink: false
author: 
  name: walon
  link: https://github.com/focus-creative-games
---
# BUG feedback template

You are welcome to ask questions freely, but please be sure to deal with the problems you encounter according to the following procedures:

- First look carefully at the [Common Errors Documentation](/en/hybridclr/common_errors/), most beginner questions are in there.
- If it is determined to be a bug, please follow [Feedback Template] (#bugfeedback) to feedback to technical customer service (QQ1732047670).


## Bug Feedback

If it is determined to be a bug, please submit the issue according to the following bug feedback template (some larger files such as export projects do not need to be submitted), and then directly feedback the issue to the technical customer service, and attach materials on QQ (such as export projects, etc. ).
**bug feedback template**

- Unity Editor version. Such as 2020.3.33
- operating system. Such as Win10
- Wrong Build Target. Such as Android 64.
- Screenshots and log files
- The c# code location of the error (if it can be located)
- Provide one of the following materials (the earlier the better, more than one can be provided at the same time)
   - Test cases according to [hybridclr_test](https://github.com/focus-creative-games/hybridclr_test) specification
   - The minimal reproducible Unity project requires modification on the basis of hybridclr_trial to avoid increasing the cost of learning packaging methods.
   - Win 64 reproducible export Debug project (must be started to reproduce) and hot update dll (used to track instructions)
   - Android (64 or 32) reproducible export Debug project must be able to be successfully packaged directly, and there must be no errors such as missing key store! ! ! It must be packaged and then run to reproduce.
   - xcode reproducible export project. It must be run to reproduce.
