---
title: Feature Description
date: 2022-05-25 11:14:58
permalink: /luban/feature/
categories:
  - luban
tags:
  - 
author: 
  name: walon
  link: https://github.com/pirunxi
---
# Feature Description

--------------------

## Multiple data sources support

  It supports multiple data formats such as excel family, json, xml, lua, yaml, and unity asset, and basically unifies the common configuration data of the game.

## Enhanced excel format

You can fill in any complex nested data more concisely in excel.

## Powerful and complete type system

Arbitrarily complex data structures can be expressed elegantly.

* Basic built-in types
   * bool, byte, short, fshort, int, fint, long, flong, float, double, string, text, bytes
   * vector2, vector3, vector4
   * datetime
* Nullable type
  
    Types other than container types support corresponding nullable data structures. Such as bool?, string?, MyEnum? MyBean?.
* Custom enumeration enum
* Custom structure bean
   * All types of fields can be defined
   * **Supports unlimited structural inheritance**, which is extremely useful for expressing complex data (skills, buffs, ai, etc.) of medium and large projects. (such as base class Shape, subclass Circle, Rectangle
* Support container type array. value can be a built-in type or a custom type
* Support container type list. value can be a built-in type or a custom type
* The container type set is supported. value can only be built-in type or enum type, bean type is not supported
* Support container type map. The key can only be a built-in type or an enum type, not a bean type. value can be a built-in type or a custom type

## Support multiple export data formats

* Support to generate **protobuf**, **msgpack**, **flatbuffers** corresponding definition files and corresponding data files (direct reflection export, high efficiency, no need to generate code and then use the generated code to load and export)
* Multiple export data formats support. Support binary, json, **protobuf**, **msgpack**, **flatbuffers**, lua, xml, erlang, **xlsx** and custom export data formats
* Support conversion between xlsx and json, lua, xml, yaml and other formats
* Export a list of all resource strings in the configuration

## Flexible configuration file organization

The following organizational forms are supported, allowing developers to flexibly organize the configuration file structure according to the situation. For example, one table can correspond to one xlsx file; multiple tables can be placed in the same xlsx file; one table can correspond to multiple xlsx files; one table can correspond to a directory.

* All cells from an excel file
* A specified cell sheet from an excel file
* from json, xml, lua, yaml files
* from json, xml, lua, yaml subfields (like root.a.b)
* From all files under the directory tree, each file corresponds to a record
* Any combination of the above

## Group export

Flexible group definition, not just client and server grouping. The following grouping granularities are supported:

* Table level grouping
* Field-level grouping (any bean field granularity, not limited to top-level fields)

## Powerful data validator

* ref. id legitimacy check
* path. Resource legality check
* range. Data Range Check
* set. Data Collection Check
* size. container size check

## Support a variety of common data table modes

* singleton (singleton table)

* map (regular key-value table)
* **list (support no index, multiple primary key joint index, multiple primary key independent index)**

## Support **external type**, ie external class

* Support for external enum types. You can reference ready-made enum classes in the configuration, such as UnityEngine.AudioType.
* Support for external class types. You can reference ready-made classes in the configuration, such as UnityEngine.Color.

## data label

Data labels are supported. You can choose to export the data that meets the requirements, and the planner does not need to manually comment out those test data when publishing the official data

## Code and data templates, powerful and flexible customization capabilities

* Support code templates, you can customize the generated code format with custom templates

* **Support data templates**, you can use template files to customize the export format. It means that without changing the existing program code, luban can be used as a **configuration processing front-end** to generate data in a custom format and work with the configuration loading code of your own project. Projects that have been developed for a long time or have been launched can also benefit from Luban's powerful data processing workflow

## Complete localization support

* Support time localization. The datetime type data will be converted to the UTC time of the target region at that moment according to the specified timezone, which is convenient for the program to use.

* Support text static localization. When exporting, all text type data is correctly replaced with the final localized string. Most of the business functions no longer need to run to find the content of the text according to the localization id, which simplifies the programmer's work.
* Support dynamic localization of text. Dynamically switch all text type data to target localized strings at runtime.
* Support main + patches data merge. On the basic data, the differential data is applied to generate the final complete data, which is suitable for making configuration data in multiple regions with slight differences.
* [TODO] [Original] Support localization of arbitrary granularity and any type of data (such as int, bean, list, map).

## Extremely high generation performance

* Support cloud generation. Using the remote generation cache, large-scale projects such as MMORPG can also be generated within seconds, and the incremental log generation is basically within 300ms.

* Support local generation. Supports regular local cache incremental build mode.
* Support **watch monitoring mode**, data directory changes will be regenerated immediately.
## Support mainstream game development languages

* c++ (11+)
* c# (.net framework 4+. dotnet core 3+)
* java (1.6+)
* go (1.10+)
* lua (5.1+)
* js and typescript (3.0+)
* python (2.7,3.0+)
* erlang (18+)
* rust (1.5+)
* Other languages supported by protobuf, msgpack, flatbuffers

## Support mainstream engines and platforms

* unity + c#
* unity + [tolua](https://github.com/topameng/tolua)、[xlua](https://github.com/Tencent/xLua)
* unity + [ILRuntime](https://github.com/Ourpalm/ILRuntime)
* unity + [puerts](https://github.com/Tencent/puerts)
* unity + [GameFramework](https://github.com/EllanJiang/GameFramework)
* unity + [ET游戏框架](https://github.com/egametang/ET)
* unreal + c++
* unreal + [unlua](https://github.com/Tencent/UnLua)
* unreal + [sluaunreal](https://github.com/Tencent/sluaunreal)
* unreal + [puerts](https://github.com/Tencent/puerts)
* cocos2d-x + lua
* cocos2d-x + js
* [skynet](https://github.com/cloudwu/skynet)
* WeChat Mini Program Platform
* Other small program platforms based on js
* All other engines and platforms that support lua
* All other engines and platforms that support js
