---
title: Tag
date: 2022-05-25 11:14:58
permalink: /luban/tag/
categories:
  - luban
tags:
  - 
author: 
  name: Code Philosophy
  link: https:://code-philosophy.com
---
# Tag Introduction

## About Tag

Luban supports record-level tag marking, and each data can have 0 or more tags. tag can be used to identify a record as a comment, either to filter the export, or to instruct the validator not to check this record.

## Tag format introduction

In different file formats, the way to fill in the record tag is as follows, you can also refer to the examples in the [luban_examples](https://github.com/focus-creative-games/luban_examples)/DesignerConfigs/Data/tag_datas directory.

- excel format. Fill in the tag in the first column of the record.

|##var|id|name|
|-|-|-|
|##type|int|string|
||1|xxx|
|dev|2|xxx|
|debug|3|yyy|
|unchecked|4|zzz|
|dev,main|5|aaa|
|dev,unchecked|6|bbb|

- For other formats, fill in the tag in the field \_\_tag__.

:::: tabs cache-lifetime="5" :options="{ useUrlFragment: false }"
::: tab JSON 
```json
{
  "__tag__": "dev",
  "id":1,
  "name":"xxx"
}
```
:::
::: tab lua格式
```lua
return {
  __tag__ = "dev",
  id = 1,
  name = "xxx",
}
```
:::
::: tab xml格式
```xml
<data>
  <__tag__>dev</__tag__>
  <id>1</id>
  <name>xxx</name>
</data>
```
:::
::: tab yaml格式
```yaml
__tag__ : dev
id : 1
name : xxx
```
:::

::::

## Special tag name

There are some special tag names that are used for special meaning.

- ##. Indicates that this record is annotated and will never be exported
- unchecked. Indicates that the validator does not check this record

## Record filter export

There are several occasions where filter export is used

- Some records are only used for internal testing and do not want to be exported for official release
- Some records want different versions for testing and publishing
- Some simple multi-version management, such as a record is only exported in a certain version or branch

Through the command line option --output:exclude_tags tag1,tag2,... of luban.client, records containing any tag specified in the parameter will not be exported. The following is an example of usage.

|##var| id | name |  |
| - | - | - | - |
| ##type | int | string |  |
| ## | id | desc1| note |
| | 1 | item1 | export forever |
|##| 2 | item2 | never export |
|test| 4 | item4 | -—output:exclude_tags test not exported |
|TEST| 5 | item5 | -—output:exclude_tags test not exported |
|dev |6 | item6 | -—output:exclude_tags dev not exported |
| | 7|item7| export forever |
